Pooling is the layer added to the CNN just after the convolution layer.
Problem with convolution operation:-
1)Memory issue
2)Translation Variance

We can reduce the size of feature map by increasing the value of stride.but we use pooling more than stride.bcz pooling solves the problem of translational variance.

Translation Variance:-
Convolutional operation follows the translation variance.The function of convolutional operation is to seek features in the image.But when we apply convolutional operation
then the features we identify become location dependent.But when we are doing image classification,then location should not worry us,the feature is more imp. but if our 
features become location dependent,then in the further layers,they will be treated differently,like the ear of a cat in top left of the image will be considered 
differengt from the image of the cat in top right.The problem with convolution operation is that the feature which we are detecting,location is tied up with them.
We want translation invariance.
This is given by pooling.It is a way to down sample the feature map.

First we apply some non linearity over the feature map-so we apply relu over it.We apply pooling over non-linear feature map.

If you have got multiple feature maps then we do pooling over individual feature map.

In maxpooling there is 0 trainable parameters because it does not have any trainable parameter,it is just a navigation operation

Advantages of Pooling:-
1)size of feature map gets reduced.
2)Translation invariance-It does not matter where is the feature,only this matters that there is a feature.-we down sample the feature map,so it focusses more on high level
  features and ignore low level features.
3)Enhanced feature(this advantage only in case of Max Pooling-not in case of other types of pooling)
  This is bcz. since max-pooling takes out the maximum of all,brighter features are captured from the receptive area thus increasing the intensity.
4)No need of training-in convolution layer filters the value of filters is known through back-propagation while training but pooling is just an aggregate operation.-faster


Global max pooling-find the maximum value from the feature space-used when we flatten the feature space to be passed to the ANN after the CNN layers-reduce overfitting

Disadvantages of pooling:-
1)Pooling abolishes the translation invarince which has a disadvantage in problems of image segmentation(to divide image into segments)used in self driving cars.
2)You loose a lot of information.
